# Predicting Student Academic Performance with Machine Learning
This is a repository holding my first data science project with Springboard. The project aims to answer the question: What factors most affect a students educational success?

The question of what causes a countries students to under perform academically is of great concern, not just to individual schools but the country as well. When students under perform, they're less likely to attend college and higher education is associated with: decreased reliance on public assistance, better health choices, and job security. The potential causes of this occurrence can range from personality differences in the students, to different teaching styles, or to government funding. The goal of this capstone is to perform data analysis on intra and inter country data for Portugal. Ultimately determining what factors most influence a students success in education. Given the results of the data analysis, one can then act in such a way that will benefit the students education. This may include changes to school resource allocation, government spending, or altering teaching styles to better accommodate student needs.

The intra data source consists of a questionnaire given to 649 students at a Portuguese secondary school, along with their numeric grades on a scale of 0 to 20. The questions probe information about the students demographics, family history, and out of school activities. While the inter data source comes from the World Bank and PISA test results with information about different educational outcomes between countries.

The approach can be outlined as follows: First, the data will be cleaned for missing values and outliers such that it is usable for analysis. Next, initial exploratory analysis will be run on the data to determine the relationship between educational outcomes and different features.  Lastly, various supervised machine learning techniques will be implemented for grade prediction. Specifically, the analysis will be split into a classification and regression scheme. From there: random forests, logistic regression, support vector machines (SVM), and ridge regression will be utilized. 
